# Vocabulary

Like most other organizations in the world, Forecast has over time developed a vocabulary specific to our work and company.

Please feel free to modify, update and add new stuff to this vocabulary. You, yes I'm pointing at you!!! :point_left:

**Project** - Planned set of interrelated tasks to be executed over a period and within certain cost and other limitations. It is defined by a contract/budget that has been approved by a client (an independent billable Client request). A project has an associated color.

**People** - The human aspect of the company. This could be time reported, utilization, calendars, workload etc.
This replaces resources.

**Insights** - Visual data output showing various diagrams, numbers and text to illustrate the status of either projects, business or people.
This replaces reports (collated and or filtered data that offers a correlated perspective on a data query).
Synonym: Reports, analytics

**Forecast** - The predicted estimate generated by the ML on a task and/or project. This also includes the predicted total spend on hours and money as well as delivery date (a prediction).

**Client** - A stakeholder that’s requesting and paying for the project. The client helps in defining the project at a high level. 
This replaces customer.

**Budget** - An estimate of costs, revenues, and resources over a specified period. The budget is presented and approved by a client. The budget and the scope are related so if the scope changes the budget changes as well and vice versa.

**Scope** - Sum of all individual tasks comprising a contract/budget in a project.
This replaces phase.
Synonym: Phase, Epic, Feature

**Task** - A piece of work in a project. A task can have a description, estimates, dependencies, attachments, labels, status and be assigned to team members. Also it can have todo’s or subtasks. A task can be marked as a bug and be blocked.
This replaces ticket, card, user story.
Synonym: Ticket, issue, card, user story, requirement

**Blocked task** - When a task is unable to move through the workflow because of unforeseen circumstances e.g. waiting for approval, dependencies, not enough detail.
This state is visually marked on a task.

**Subtask** - A sub-division of a card into smaller pieces of work. This can have an estimate, title and description. Can be marked completed and will have an effect on the time left on a task.
These can be converted to tasks if needed.

**To-do** - A checklist of things that need to be done to complete a task. These only have a title. Can be marked completed.

**Estimate** - The best guess of the amount of time required to complete a task. All tasks will have a high and low estimate defined by the user/team. The ML will predict the forecast based on experience.

**Dependency** - A way to indicate that tasks are related and needs to be completed in a certain order.

**Attachment** - A file, document, picture etc. that is related to a task or a project.

**Milestone** - Scheduled event that indicates the completion of a major deliverable event (or a set thereof) of a project.

**Label** - A user defined category. There are a predefined set of tags in an account that can be modified by an administrator. Some default labels will be permanent and not possible to be removed e.g. bug.
This replaces tasks and tags. A label has an associated color.
Synonym: Hashtag

**Points** - An abstract size for tasks and subtasks that is used instead of hours. A point can be correlated to a number of hours/minutes but doesn’t have to be.

**ML (Machine Learning)** - Ability of a machine to improve its own performance through the use of a software that employs artificial intelligence techniques to mimic the ways by which humans seem to learn, such as repetition and experience.

**Workflow** - The set of steps each task or project moves through in it’s life-cycle. This can for instance be visualized as a Kanban wall.
This replaces board.
Synonym: Board, Kanban

**Stage (project)** - The steps in the life-cycle of a project.
These are currently; planning, running, closed and halted.

**Status (project)** - The actual subjective status of the project as set by the PM.

**Step (task)** - The steps in the life-cycle of a task. They reflect a production line.
These are predefined, but can be modified by a PM.

**Time entry** - The amount of time a person has spent on a task or idle.
This replaces time report, log time.

**Sales pipeline** - Set of potential contracts/projects that a salesperson will bring to the company.

**Schedule** - Planning of projects and people on a calendar. 
Assigning an appropriate number of people to tasks during each period of work.
Determining when an activity should start or end, depending on its duration, dependencies, team member availability, and target completion date of the project.

**Tentative schedule** - The simulated plan if a project is accepted by the client. Potential work based on the sales pipeline.

**Confirmed schedule** - The realization of the plan. Actual work.

**Utilization** - The percentage of time a person has spent on billable time compared to their available time. It will also show time spent on idle work and not having entered time at all.

**Sprint** - A specific period of time where work is being performed and delivered at the end. Used to prioritize work and measure velocity e.g. how fast is the team working.
This replaces iteration, timebox. User can select to use sprints or not.
Synonym: Iteration, timebox

**Backlog** - The current scope of work that is left to be completed during the project. This can contain both must-haves and should-haves. It’s not necessarily needed to complete the entire backlog before the project is closed. If the scope changes during the project the backlog will change as well and vice-versa.
This and sprint planning should be the same screen.

**Sprint planning** - Defining the amount of work that needs to be done in a fixed timeframe.
This replaces tasks and is only shown if sprints are selected.

**Company** - The organization that has a Forecast account.

**Templates** - A predefined structure for a project. It can include workflow, roles, tasks and milestones, estimates and labels.
This could be solved by the ability to copy an existing project or marking an existing project as a template.

**Working hours** - The time table for a person e.g. Peter is working 8 hours a day Monday to Friday. There are default working hours for the account as well.

**Calendar** - Timeline display of what a team member is working on. The day to day diary of the team member. This includes vacation, sick time, and any other assignments.

**Non-project time** - All time that is not billable to a client such as sickness, vacation, time not spent on projects (on the bench).

**Billable** - All time reported on a project that can be billed to a client.

**Business** - How well the company is performing on various metrics like profitability, client value, growth, opportunities, performance.

**Rate** - The cost pr. hour for a given role that is being billed to a client. How much every role can be sold for to the client.

**Rate card** - A collection of rates that one or more clients are being billed.

**Cost** - The price pr. hour for the team member that is incurred by the company. How much every team member is worth in terms of salary.

**Project Manager (PM)** - A person overseeing a project. The PM manages people, oversees work, reports status to higher level stakeholders. A PM can be assigned to one or more projects.

**Team member** - A person working on a project and is not a PM. A team member can be assigned to one or more projects.

**Role** - A prescribed or expected behavior associated with a particular function in an organization. A team member has a single role. There are a predefined set of roles in an account that can be modified by an administrator.

**Skills** - A set of abilities that the team member has e.g. UX research, programming, sketch, drawing, cooking. A team member can have many skills. 
This will be modelled as labels in the system.

**Permissions** - The view that the user has the rights to see e.g. a team member should not be able to see financial information on a task.
